# Demonstration of our Research 

We were able to successfully build upon the Synthetic Quorum Sensing system Zargar et al were able to create. We wanted to show that microbial biomanufacturing using Synthetic Quorum Sensing is the future of biomanufacturing, and we achieved that by incorporating into the quorum sensing system the pSQS AI-2 sensitive plasmid and extra lsrK, ydgG, luxS genes. With such modifications to the quorum sensing pathway, we created a system that reduces heterogeneity in importing AI-2 among the E. coli population, so that almost all of our cells are being activated. This increase in the % of cells being activated becomes much more significant when scaling this result from lab up to the industry scale, because there are that much more cells that will be activated even though they would not have been originally.

The natural quorum sensing dependent autoinduction without any modifications is not a viable solution to microbial biomanufacturing because within the natural quorum sensing system, many cells in the system do not become activated. Confirming that, our financial analysis shows that using unmodified quorum sensing in biomanufacturing is not a viable alternative to currently implemented microbial biomanufacturing methods using inducers such as IPTG. However, our system is able to activate more cells in the system compared to an unmodified quorum sensing system. Autoinduction using our AI-2 sensitive plasmid and other plasmids is effective because in large scale systems, we will have more cells producing a gene of interest than that of what IPTG or other current inducers can do. Implementation of our system on a large scale system is necessary to verify these claims; however, our model predicts success in actual implementation. The lab data we produced on our system is the first step taken towards improving microbial biomanufacturing efficiency.
	
We created a system that changes the quorum sensing and activation of the population, and one of the things that we succeeded is manipulating cells to reach quorum activation even when fewer cells are present in the system compared to wild type. Our LsrK-LuxS-sfGFP system causes quorum activation to occur at lowest population density at the earliest time point. While this may not be as useful for biomanufacturing as much as reduction in heterogeneity observed in our other systems, the LsrK-LuxS-sfGFP system may be useful for whoever wants to start quorum sensing-based activation earlier, such as in a laboratory setting.

By creating a unique library of quorum sensing and modulated parts, we are opening the gateway for more teams to tackle the current problems with autoinduction in microbial biomanufacturing. Our project is the leading step to connect Zargar et al’s work to iGEM and also key step in incorporating a reliable synthetic quorum sensing pathway to the biomanufacturing industry.
